# Format Editor

The format editor has two main sections:

* *Stylesheets* is a place you can define your own CSS styles.
* *Templates* is a place where you define editor formatting templates for classes in your grammar.

When implementing format, you can open a document for it in the Model view and see result of your format changes applied to the model as soon as you make them.

## Stylesheets

In the 'Stylesheets' section you can add either your own CSS stylesheets, using `Stylesheet` class, or URL references to existing stylesheets, using `StylesheetRef` class.

Both of them have one optional attribute `media`:`string` which is used to specify media query or media type to which this stylesheet applies to.

The difference is that in the `Stylesheet` element you get a text area to type in or paste the stylesheet itself, whereas in `StylesheetRef` you point to the URL of an existing stylesheet instead.

## Editor Templates

Editor template controls how to render model elements created from a class in your grammar.

If you do not specifiy a template for some class, a default outline template will be automatically generated by Grasp at runtime.

You can add new template elements in the 'Templates' section of the editor format document.

Template elements have the following attributes:

* `Class`: `Class` references, required list - grammar classes for which this template must be used.
* `HTML tag`: `string`, required - which HTML tag to wrap the editor section into (e.g. "div" or "span".
* `CSS class`: `string`, optional - CSS classes in your stylesheet to apply, if any.
* `style`: `string`, optional - CSS style to inject into the generated HTML element.

There are couple ways how you can implement template's content:

* By using a structured editor where you can mix configuration elements and markup to achieve desired look;
* By writing HTML code with special CSS classes.

These methods are described in subsequent sections.


